Unilidar 2
Unitree Lidar
2024.11
v 1.0User Manual
Uniliar 2
Purpose of the Software
Operating Environment
Hardware Configuration
Interface Overview
Point Cloud Display Interface Description
Device Management Interface Description
Output Mode Settings
Lidar Info Module
IMU Data Window
Connecting L2 to PC
Preparations Before Use
Getting Started
Version Information Acquisition
2
2
2
2
3
4
5
6
7
2
2
3
9
9
CONTENTS
2024 Unitree Robotics. All rights reserved.
Introduction to Unilidar 2
Preparations Before Use
·Purpose of the Software
Unilidar 2 is a software designed specifically for the Unitree 4D LIDAR L2, which can display
real-time point cloud data from the laser detection and ranging device connected to a computer.
With Unilidar 2, users can easily view the device status and point cloud data.
·Connecting L2 to PC
UART TTL Connection
L2 supports both UART serial port connection and ENET network port connection. Ensure that the
device is connected to a 12V power supply.
For temporary testing or use of L2, it is recommended to use the converter module, power adapter,
and data cable provided in the package. The connection method is as follows:
a. Insert the 4PIN serial port of L2 into the converter module.
b. Connect the power adapter to the power supply port of the cable for power supply.
c. Insert the Type-C interface of the data cable into the data communication port of the converter
module, and connect the other end to your personal computer.
·Hardware Configuration
There are no special configuration requirements for using Unilidar 2. However, due to the software's
extensive point cloud display functions, please choose a computer with a high-performance
graphics card.
·Operating Environment
Unilidar 2 currently supports Windows (64-bit) systems.
222024 Unitree Robotics. All rights reserved.
Unitree4D LiDAR-L2 UART Switching module Connect a power supply
USB to TypeC cable
Unitree
ENET UDP Connection
L2 supports network UDP data transmission. Connect the network cable to the network port and
power port of L2 to use it.
The network port of L2 can be directly used for data transmission. When using it, insert the network
port into a switch or computer, and connect the power adapter to the power supply port of the
cable. The default configuration information for L2 is:
IP: 192.168.1.62, Gateway: 192.168.1.1, Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.0, the default target server IP
address for sending data is 192.168.1.2. The radar UDP data transmission port is 6101, and the target
server's receiving port is 6201. When using for the first time, please ensure that the target server's
address and L2's IP do not conflict. If you need to modify the configuration information, it can be
done through the host computer or SDK.
· The converter module, power adapter, and data cable are all included with the package, which
can be used for power connection, control signal transmission, and data transmission. You can also
use other cables according to your needs to improve the convenience and protection of the system
(such as dust and waterproofing).
· When debugging, please be sure to place L2 on the rubber mat provided and place the rubber
mat on a flat surface to ensure the radar works stably to avoid bumps and falls.
Getting Started
·Interface Overview
After launching Unilidar 2, you will enter the main interface of the software. The Unilidar main
interface includes two parts: the device management interface and the point cloud display
interface.
32024 Unitree Robotics. All rights reserved.
·Point Cloud Display Interface Description
Once Unilidar 2 connects to the device and starts sampling, the point cloud display interface will
display the point cloud image, which includes a reference coordinate system.
You can zoom in or out of the point cloud image using the mouse wheel.
You can control the image display angle using the left mouse button or the up, down, left, and right
arrow keys on the keyboard.
After the IMU display is activated, the coordinate system will automatically follow the direction of
the radar and cannot be dragged.
42024 Unitree Robotics. All rights reserved.
·Device Management Interface Description
The device management interface on the left side of the software is as follows:
52024 Unitree Robotics. All rights reserved.
·Output Mode Settings
L2 can only output point cloud data through one of the two methods: UDPMode (ENET UDP) or
SerialMode (UART TTL). Set this through "Work Mode" with "ENET/UART Select", and click
"SetMode" to issue the command. If successful, a success prompt will be returned, and then click
"Restart" to restart the radar for the changes to take effect. The default point cloud output for L2 is
ENETUDP.
The default parameters for L2 are:
IP: 192.168.1.62, Gateway: 192.168.1.1, Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.0, the default target server IP
address for sending data is 192.168.1.2. The radar UDP data transmission port is 6101, and the target
server's receiving port is 6201.
When using UDPMode, please select the local address of the computer that receives the radar data.
For the first use, please change the local IP of the computer to 192.168.1.2, the gateway to
192.168.1.1, and the subnet mask to 255.255.255.0.
After clicking "Open UDP Port", a connection with the radar will be established, and you can set the
radar parameters below.
When using SerialMode, you need to use a serial port converter board to connect L2 to the
computer. After the serial port is recognized, select the corresponding COM port from the
drop-down menu and click "Open Serial Port" to open the serial port and establish a connection.
62024 Unitree Robotics. All rights reserved.
·Lidar Info Module
·Work Mode Module
Please note that the default point cloud output for L2 radar is ENETUDP. If you need to view
real-time point cloud data via the serial port, please set the parameters to "UART" through "Work
Mode" after the connection is established, click "SetMode" to issue the command. If successful, a
success prompt will be returned, and then click "Restart" to restart the radar for the changes to
take effect.
Additionally, if you forget the previously set IP parameters of L2, you can also reset the parameters
by connecting to L2 via the serial port, and then reconfigure the parameters in "Config Setting" by
clicking "Change" to issue the command. If successful, a success prompt will be returned, and then
click "Restart" to restart the radar for the changes to take effect.
sys_rotation_period：The speed of the horizontal low-speed motor, in revolutions per minute (r/min).
com_rotation_period：The speed of the vertical high-speed motor, in revolutions per minute (r/min).
dirty_index：The index of dirt on the radar's optical surface.
packet_lost_up：The packet loss rate of the upper board of the radar.
packet_lost_down：The packet loss rate of the lower board of the radar.
apd_temperarure：The temperature of the APD, in degrees Celsius (℃).
apd_voltage：The voltage of the APD, in Volts (V).
laser_ voltage：The voltage of the laser emitter, in Volts (V).
imu_temperature：The temperature of the IMU, in Volts (V).
Point cloud count：Sets the time for each point display, with options for 500 milliseconds, 1 second,
2 seconds, and 4 seconds.
Work Mode：Can set "Normal Mode" and "NEGA Mode", which are the normal mode and negative
angle mode, respectively. In negative angle mode, the field of view is 360 ° x96 ° . Note that in
negative angle mode, the furthest measurement distance in the expanded angle range is slightly
closer. After selecting the setting, click "SetMode" to issue the command, and then restart the radar
by clicking "Restart" for the changes to take effect. The default is NEGA Mode.
3D/2D Mode：Can set "3D Mode" and "2D Mode", which sets the radar to 3D mode or 2D mode,
respectively. The default is "3D Mode". After selecting the setting, click "SetMode" to issue the
command, and then restart the radar by clicking "Restart" for the changes to take effect. The
default is "3D Mode".
IMU Display Enable：After the IMU display is activated, the coordinate system will automatically
follow the direction of the radar. You can set it to "Enable" or "Disable". After selecting the setting,
click "SetMode" to issue the command, and then restart the radar by clicking "Restart" for the
changes to take effect. The default is "Disable".
ENET/UART Select：L2 can only output point cloud data through one of the two methods: UDPMode
(ENET UDP) or SerialMode (UART TTL). Set this through "ENET" or "UART". After selecting the setting,
click "SetMode" to issue the command, and then click "Restart" to restart the radar for the changes
to take effect. The default is "ENET".
72024 Unitree Robotics. All rights reserved.
·Config Setting Module
Power On mode：Sets whether the radar starts automatically. Select "SELF START", and the radar
will start automatically when powered on. Select "CMD START", and the radar will enter standby
mode (Standby) without data output after powering on. You can start it by clicking "Normal" and
then "Standby" in the Work Mode section of the host computer, or you can start it through the SDK
interface. After selecting the setting, click "SetMode" to issue the command, and then restart the
radar by clicking "Restart" for the changes to take effect. The default is "SELF START".
Gray Enable：Enables or disables the output of grayscale data. Select "Gray ON" to output
grayscale data, or "Gray OFF" to disable the analysis of grayscale information and output no
grayscale data. After selecting the setting, click "SetMode" to issue the command, and then restart
the radar by clicking "Restart" for the changes to take effect. The default is "Gray ON".
Normal/Standby：Switches the status of L2 between normal working mode and standby mode in
real-time.
SetMode：Except for the display time setting, all other parameter settings require clicking
"SetMode" to issue the command after setting, and then click "Restart" to restart for the changes to
take effect.
Restart：Restarts L2.
Synchronous：Obtains parameter information from L2.
Lidar ChangeIP：Sets the IP address of the radar when outputting via ENET.
Lidar ChangePort：Sets the UDP data transmission port of the radar when outputting via ENET.
Lidar Gateway： Set the gateway for the radar when outputting via ENET.
Lidar SubnetMask： Set the subnet mask for the radar when outputting via ENET.
Usr ChangeIP：Sets the IP address of the target server when the radar sends data via ENET.
Usr ChangePort: Sets the UDP data reception port of the target server when the radar sends data
via ENET.
Change：After setting the parameters, click to issue the command, and then click "Restart" to
restart the radar for the changes to take effect.
Restart：Restarts L2。
Restore Factory Defaults：Restores the IP parameter information to the factory configuration, which
is IP: 192.168.1.62, Gateway: 192.168.1.1, Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.0, the default target server IP
address for sending data is 192.168.1.2. The radar UDP data transmission port is 6101, and the target
server's receiving port is 6201.
82024 Unitree Robotics. All rights reserved.
Version Information Acquisition
·IMU Data Window
You can obtain radar version information by clicking "GetVersion", which is usually used to
determine whether a successful connection has been established with the radar.
Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4: These parameters represent the quaternion, which is used to describe the rotation
state of the IMU (Inertial Measurement Unit).
ACC1, ACC2, ACC3: These parameters represent the acceleration data of the three axes of the
accelerometer, corresponding to the acceleration values of the X, Y, Z axes.
GYRO1, GYRO2, GYRO3: These parameters represent the angular velocity data of the three axes
of the gyroscope, corresponding to the angular velocity values of the X, Y, Z axes.
92024 Unitree Robotics. All rights reserved.
This manual will not be notified separately if updated.
You can check the latest version of the "User Manual" on the official website of Unitree.
Unitree is a trademark of Hangzhou Yushu Technology Co., Ltd.
Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation and its subsidiaries in the United States.
https://www.unitree.com/en/download