 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e-CAM25_CUONX 
Version 1.2 
e-con Systems 
5/29/2025 
Application Note:  
Trigger and Strobe Mode  


 
 
© Copyright e-con Systems. 2024. All rights reserved. 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Disclaimer 
e-con Systems reserves the right to edit/modify this document without any prior intimation 
of whatsoever.  

 
2                                                                  e-CAM25_CUONX Trigger and Strobe Mode Application  Note 
Contents 
INTRODUCTION TO E-CAM25_CUONX 3 
DESCRIPTION 3 
TRIGGER MODE 6 
PIN DESCRIPTION 7 
CN3 HEADER CIRCUIT 8 
  

 
 
© Copyright e-con Systems. 2024. All rights reserved. 3 
 
 
Introduction to e-CAM25_CUONX 
e-con Systems is a leading Embedded Product Design Services Company which 
specializes in advanced camera solutions. e-CAM25_CUONX is a new Mobile 
Industry Processor Interface (MIPI) camera which uses the AR0234 camera module. 
It is a 4-Lane module connected to the Jetson Orin Nano™ development kit 
supported for Jetson Orin Nano and Orin NX platforms launched by e-con Systems. 
The prebuilt driver for this camera along with the camera board is provided by e-con 
Systems. 
The NVIDIA® Orin Nano™ development kit is a small, powerful computer for 
embedded applications and Artificial Intelligence (AI) Internet of Things (IoT). It is 
pre-flashed with a Linux environment, includes support for many common APIs, and 
is supported by NVIDIA® complete development toolchain. Jetson Orin NX™/Orin 
Nano™ platforms support single camera for 4-lane configuration. 
e-CAM25_CUONX is 2.3 MP custom lens camera module based on 1/2.6" AR0234CS 
CMOS image sensor from onsemi™. It is a color camera which supports UYVY image 
format and provided with S-mount (also known as M12 board lens) lens holder. The 
S-mount is small form-factor lens mounts for board cameras. e-con Systems 
provides the sample applications that demonstrates the features of this camera. 
However, this camera can also be utilized by any Video for Linux version 2 (V4L2) 
application. 
e-CAM25_CUONX has a 2.3 MP color camera with S-mount (also known as M12 
board lens) lens holder. The S-mount is one of the most used small form factor lens 
mounts for board cameras. e-CAM25_CUONX camera is interfaced to J21 connector 
of the Jetson Orin NX™/Orin Nano™ development kit using the ACC-RB-WTB-ADP 
board. 
e-con Systems provides the sample applications that demonstrate the features of 
this camera. However, this camera can also be utilized by any V4L2 application. 
This document describes external trigger setup to interface e-CAM25_CUONX board 
on Jetson Orin NX™/Orin Nano™ development kit. 
 
Description 
This Application Note concentrates on the working of trigger mode in e-
CAM25_CUONX. Many imaging applications commonly requires the image sensor to 
capture an image after the triggering action. This triggering action can be the passing 
of an object on a conveyor belt, the flash of a strobe light, or the click of a button. 

 
4                                                                  e-CAM25_CUONX Trigger and Strobe Mode Application  Note 
 
e-CAM25_CUONX offers the ability to synchronize the start of the image sensor's 
exposure with this triggering action. This synchronization is controlled on the image 
sensor using one trigger signal. Additionally, the camera offers the flexibility to 
program the exposure time. 
e-CAM25_CUONX is a two-board solution as follows: 
• e-CAM217_CUMI0234_MOD (Camera module) 
•  ACC-RB-WTB-ADP (Adaptor Board) 
The front and rear views of e-CAM25_CUONX camera module and Adaptor board 
are shown in following figures. 
  
Figure 1: Front View of e-CAM25 Camera Board 
    
Figure 2: Rear View of e-CAM25 Camera Board 


 
 
© Copyright e-con Systems. 2024. All rights reserved. 5 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Front view of e-CAM25 ADP Board 
  
Figure 4: Rear view of e-CAM25 ADP Board 
Note: CN3 connector in the e-CAM25 ADP Board is used for trigger input and strobe output signal. 


 
6                                                                  e-CAM25_CUONX Trigger and Strobe Mode Application  Note 
Trigger Mode 
In trigger mode, e-CAM25_CUONX camera can synchronize the exposure (or 
integration) of the camera pixels to an external trigger pulse that can be given 
through the GPIO connector of the camera. Since this is a global shutter camera, all 
the pixels start and stop integrating at the same time, avoiding rolling skew during 
the capture of fast-moving scenes. 
In trigger mode of e-CAM25_CUONX, the preview will not be available, and the 
camera will be kept in standby waiting for a trigger pulse to start the integration of 
pixels and provide a global shutter image. 
You can configure the camera settings such as white balance, exposure, still image 
resolution, still image storage location and so on, in manual mode and then enter 
the trigger mode. The auto function lock option can be used to lock the auto 
functions such as exposure, white balance and so on, in auto mode. In trigger mode, 
the camera settings will be retained, but preview will not be available. The camera 
will be waiting for an external event on the GPIO connector, and the camera will 
start exposing on the trigger signal.  
All the images captured will be stored in the default location, that is, the desktop or 
can be stored in any user specified path, in the format selected in the Still Capture 
Settings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
© Copyright e-con Systems. 2024. All rights reserved. 7 
 
 
Pin Description  
This section describes about the pin description of e-CAM25_CUONX. 
In trigger mode, the EXT_TRIGGER pin of the CN3 connector of ACC-RB-WTB-ADB 
board is used for input trigger pulse. The below table lists the pin configuration of 
CN3 External Header. 
CN3 
Pin No 
Signal Name Pin Type Description 
1 VCC_3P3 POWER 3.3V power supply 
2 TRIGGER INPUT 3.3V trigger input to the camera 
3 STROBE OUTPUT 3.3V strobe output from the camera 
4 GND POWER Ground signal for digital and analog 
Note on TRIGGER Pin: If trigger mode is enabled, the trigger pulses must be 
provided to this pin to get the streaming. For more information on sensor trigger 
please refer to the e-CAM25_CUONX_Linux_App_User_Manual_<REV>.pdf. 
Note: 
• If the trigger pulse width is lesser than the required trigger pulse width, 
either the exposure may not start, or the captured image will be dark. 
• If the required frame rate is 30fps, then the frequency of the trigger pulse 
should be 30Hz. 
• Duty cycle should be less than 10%. If the duty cycle is more than 10%, it will 
affect exposure time and readout time of the camera. 
  

 
8                                                                  e-CAM25_CUONX Trigger and Strobe Mode Application  Note 
 CN3 Header Circuit 
This section describes the CN3 connector of e-CAM25_CUONX. 
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
© Copyright e-con Systems. 2024. All rights reserved. 9 
 
 
Revision History 
 
Rev Date Description Author 
1.0 25-Apr-2023 Initial Draft Camera Dev Team 
1.1 24-May-2024 Added a note on external trigger 
configuration Camera Dev Team 
1.2 29-May-2025 Updated CN3 connector schematics Camera Dev Team 
 
 

